RICHARD PASCUAL
Database Developer and I.T. Engineer
pascualrg1@gmail.com
(925) 223-7166


SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS
Software Engineer and Database Developer with a track record of delivering on-time, on-budget projects that deliver substantial business and organizational benefits. Possesses an active interest in the ways that technology systems impact business processes and requirements.


EDUCATION
Certificate in Computer Information Systems, Systems Analysis and Design, University of California, Berkeley
Bachelors of Science, Biomedical Engineering, University of California, San Diego



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE


Data Networks Corporation, Database Specialist, March 2013 to Present
Kihei, Hawaii (Maui)

*   Introduced Oracle Application Express (APEX) to the organization’s infrastructure. Specified architecture of Apex service platform, trained DBA’s on installation, upgrade and configuration best practices.
*   Designed, created and tested custom RDBMS data-mart ETL processes coded in Oracle PL/SQL for ad-hoc and analytical reporting purposes. Validated the results and bench marked performance improvements.
*   Specified maintenance conditions and requirements for troubleshooting and support of the mart under production conditions. Developed web-based monitoring tools and visual dashboard monitors under SCRUM and Agile development processes (using Oracle APEX).
*   Optimized/validated SQL queries and PL/SQL Procedural Code. Explored possible performance gains from multiple approaches. Provided recommendations based on a consensus of advice from other developers, code review sessions and available system documentation.
*   Programmed to user specification applications in Oracle APEX. Built tools, utilities enabling team members with internal systems administration, specifically to keep within compliance for periodic audits for ISO compliance and qualification for other certifications.
*   Evaluated new software tools and technologies which include installing, configuring and developing proof-of-concept applications with the intent of improving or simplifying chronic issues with existing legacy operations.
*   Authored internal white-papers and reviews that reported results from comparative findings and studies of current or emerging technologies.


Akimeka, LLC, Programmer Analyst, April 2011 to February 2013
Kihei, Hawaii (Maui)

*   Conducted peer code reviews of new and existing database schema objects. Proposed and implemented enhancements targeted for short and long term objectives.
*   Optimized SQL queries and custom database PL/SQL API’s created for access by an application with a hybrid of middleware tiers including: Ibatis, Hibernate and Spring. I looked for problems reported by the client users through the project’s trouble-ticket and case monitoring system. Revised API designs in response to improve accuracy and performance with the application and presentation tier.
*   Software Release and Configuration Management (SCM): Created an automated process using for maintaining daily builds for a multiple tiered system servicing two different geographical locations. Developed deployment scripts using Windows batch scripts and Perforce-SCM apis. Created and deployed daily database builds based on change sets checked in by developers on the team.
*   Audited SQL Server RDBMS system installations for compliance with security lock-down (STIG) requirements as published by DoD and .mil documentation. Confirmed matching conditions or scripted system modifications to meet guidelines that were not satisfied by the product as a COTs installation. Provided documentation and confirmation of compliance findings or exceptions to the site IA for final submission and certification.
*   Mentored Computer Science and Engineering college students participating in the Akamai Workforce initiative of Hawaii.  Provided project guidance and mentoring support as well as support in the development of the interns' presentations.


University of California, Berkley, Database Developer, Sept. 2006 to March 2011
Berkeley, California

*   Established Oracle Application Express (APEX) within the university’s infrastructure. Specified architecture of Apex services, trained DBA’s on installation, upgrade and configuration best practices. Planned system upgrades.
*   Programmed to user specification applications in Oracle APEX. Built tools and utilities enabling campus customers (fundraising departments) to replace their manually intensive workflows with web-based, centralized, relational database applications. Almost all projects were actively used in production or user-facing situations.
*   Programmed automated processes and utilities for the database environment including PL/SQL database objects such as packages, procedures, functions, triggers, views and materialized views (in Oracle 10g and 11g). Tasks later included modifications for the organization’s migration from 10g to 11g.
*   Set up and maintained Oracle VPD (Virtual Private Database) security environment for campus fundraising and donor prospecting record-keeping. Designed supporting objects and devised a method of integrating VPD functionality with application level user accounts on systems such as campus business intelligence tools.
*   Served as release/build engineer for Oracle database code migrations between development, test and production tiers. Established coding standards and change set workflow using Subversion and Tortoise SVN over SSH. Required practical understanding of PKI security to configure between SVN clients and the repository host.
*   Trained a team of three other programmer colleagues to contribute productively in the replacement of multiple legacy or external database interfaces used by fund raising systems such as: campus billing, financials, call-center operations, human resources, etc. None of these developers had prior Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL or RDBMS experience prior to my hire.
*   Selected a Campus-Wide Fund Raising CRM and Advancement Management System: As a part of the product evaluation team, gathered requirements and ran large user-group meetings to facilitate the selection of a replacement for CADS, the Cal-Berkeley Advancement and Development System. 


Kodak Imaging Network, Enterprise Reports Developer, Oct. 2005 to August 2006

*   Developed reports, business intelligence analysis and ad hoc data extracts for use by operations management and executive staff. Data source of the production system contained some tables that were over 1.2 billion records in volume.
*   Recommended and developed reporting solutions for finance, marketing and operations support divisions. Developed reports and backend processes that extracted and transformed summarization data from a multi-billion record database system.
*   Developed ad hoc, batch and scheduled reports using Crystal Reports and Seagate Info product. Designed new reports to specification or provided alternate designs and data output formats to fill current needs.
*   Analyzed existing reporting database ETL processes and adapted this process into Transact SQL procedural code. This included integration of new features and rewriting existing syntax for compatibility with the target enterprise warehouse system running Sybase IQ.
*   Established and maintained source code repository for all warehouse, mart and report system source code using Perforce. Extracted source code from production sources and checked them into the scm as a backup and a method for tracking incremental changes to database code over time.


Pixar Animation Studios, May 2005 to September 2005

*   Provided administration and support of Oracle Financials system: set up user accounts, customized interface screens, designed accounting workflows (to specification).
*   Audited financial system installation for compliance with Sarbannes-Oxley (SOX) regulations. Revised and/or authored hundreds and hundreds of pages of documentation and procedural guides that were incomplete or in out-of-date status because of changes made to the upgrade.
*   Attended vendor meetings and user-consultation sessions to gather information and training regarding potential upgrade issues to Pixar systems which were already in active, production use.
*   Developed and modified HR Reports to user specifications.


E-Loan, Inc., Programmer Analyst, Dec. 1999 to May 2005

*   Provided ad hoc reporting, data analysis solutions and self-service business intelligence tools.  Developed reporting intranet portal using Crystal Reports 8 Web API Toolkit and Oracle 9i PL/SQL stored procedures.
*   Developed and maintained data warehouse ETL processes for company’s custom-built web analytics and marketing data warehouse.  Created queries, data extracts and designed reusable objects for other non-technical users.
*   Monitored daily production ETL processes and resolved errors, built enhancements to these customized ETL process using Oracle PL/SQL (Oracle 8i and 9i)/ star-snowflake/dimensional modeling.  Scripted ad hoc and scheduled SQL queries for reports and data analysis purposes.
*   Developed data extraction tools using Unix shell, cron, Perl (Mostly using DBI and CGI modules) for scheduled, batch processed operations.  Data delivered automatically (also scripted) by a variety of methods:  email, shared unix/windows (samba) storage location, scp and sftp. 
*   Designed and created interfaces between loan management database systems based on existing system constraints.  Mapped loan origination and customer data systems to:  Marketing email auto-responder (csv extracts), Loan Servicing System (SQL 2000), Capital Markets Risk Management analytics (Oracle and MS Access 2000). 


TECHNICAL SKILLS

*   Database Programming and Administration: Oracle (Vendor Certified 11g SQL examination), 7, 8i, 9i (on RAC), 10g, 11g, SQL Server 2000, 2008 and 2012;  Microsoft Access 2000, 2010 and 2013, Data Warehousing/Mart Methodology (ETL processes, Query Optimization, Star/Snowflake Design).   Middleware and System Interface Development (PL/SQL, Object Oriented, Batch Scheduling Processes), Created and applied Oracle database templates as well as other DBA style dirty work.
*   User Interface Programming and Design (Intranet Applications Development): Oracle Application Express (APEX) Versions 3.6 through 4.2.5, HTML, Markdown (MD), Perl-CGI, Microsoft Access & Excel tools for database access 
*   Information Systems Project Management: Full SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle); System Specification and Documentation; RFP (Request For Proposal) Development, Currently working in Agile/SCRUM development cycles.
*   Systems Analysis and Design: Requirements Gathering, Systems Analysis, Design and Consultant Skills; Data Flow Diagrams; Data Mapping and Documentation; Researched missing system specifications, reverse engineered processes and source code to accomplish solution design tasks.
*   Network and Systems Administration: Microsoft Windows (Desktop and Server): latest is Server 2008, Linux/Unix (Desktop and Server): lots of flavors: Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Mint and others;  Cloud Experience: Amazon AWS (Route-53, EC2, RDS, S3, and growing…), LAMP servers, DNS configuration, VMWare and Oracle Virtual-Box, SSL, SSH, PKI architectures 
*   Release Control and Configuration Management: Rational Clearcase, Perforce, CVS, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion (SVN), Tortoise SVN, Git, Perforce (P4)


SECURITY CLEARANCE
Interim Secret Clearance, Investigation Date: 09/12/2012


AWARDS
U.C. Berkeley Staff “Spot Award” for innovation and excellence in customer support.
(This award was from a nomination submitted by the Director of Estate Donors.  I developed for his department a custom CRM-style tool in Oracle APEX)





