#The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching
> Attn: Human Resources
> RE:   Job Opening for Oracle Developer Advocate for SQL-150009IK


Dear Oracle Hiring Staff:


I am a database developer and software professional.  I make stuff and solve problems and I **absolutely love it**.  Whether it's the collaborative delivery team, the end-user community or the endless selection of emerging and even older (perhaps forgotten?) technical options, It is a rewarding arena to enter on behalf of any industry.

For my recent experience with the project run by Akimeka (and later the Data Networks Corporation) I have been here in Maui, Hawaii.  I came out to the island for its great weather but also for the opportunity to make an impact on diversifying the industries of its local economy (Maui is a heavily tourist tourism-dependent economy.) The offices of Akimeka, LLC represents over a ten year legacy in driving the demand for a higher-ed trained workforce on the islands.  

Most of even our own organization's workforce is still imported with recruits from the mainland, but our company involves ourselves by enhancing STEM education in elementary through college aged students.  One of the enjoyable experiences of my work here is mentoring college juniors and graduating seniors during the summer to work on projects with our database team.  

Before my days at Akimeka/DNC, I worked in the higher-ed space (Development and Advancement).  I designed, developed and deployed database-centric solutions for the University of California, Berkeley.  Among my accomplishments, I transformed our technical department into a software solutions shop.  We eventually converted to using modern tools and relied on standardized developer processes (scm practices, code reviews, unit-testing and QA approval cycles).  

While at Cal we built and ran our data warehouse for campus-wide fund raising units (including self-service BI/Analytic tools), my favorite accomplishment was setting up multiple custom CRM, ETL and data transfer tools using a little known platform (at the time) known as Oracle Application Express (APEX).  Apex, for those who don't know is the precursor product to the also wildly popular Salesforce product.

Most of the MySQL database experience I have is through my independent developer efforts through Open Source projects which I have used and tinkered with over the last decade and longer.  My latest technical passion has been learning how to leverage cost effective implementations of database + web-service platforms hosted by commercial data-centers that everyone these days wants to call "clouds".  

I was one of the early adopter developers who jumped in and started tinkering on Amazon's U.S.-West-N.California data-center making things for use with a MySQL hosted database (since around 2007.)  In general, I have been watching and running my own open source projects on Amazon's AWS (These days, I'm specifically using products such as RDS (Running Oracle SE-One and also MySQL), EC2, Route-53, S3, and others).  

I am also running smaller Linux server instances through other "cloud" hosting vendors to compare the relative cost to feature offerings.  I see that cost-efficient commercial offerings such as these may be a pivot point to opening accessibility to modern technology tools for non-profits, education, higher-ed and other "non-Fortune-500" organizations.

With operations in Virginia/D.C., Texas and California as well there is a spectrum of challenges in dividing domains of responsibility will keeping some redundancy in our support functions.  I enjoy splitting time to tackle the effort of designing and proving solutions that have long-term and lasting benefit to the systems I support. Our most recent project as a multiple year-long effort to correlate existing performance and accuracy problems with solutions built into our customized data mart schema design and etl process. 


> Incidentally, the paper linked in the job post from _Carnegie Perspectives_ [referenced from the Carnegie team of Bryk, Gomez and Grunow](2) raises a salient point on the concept of "Networked Improved Communities".  With some close observation, these are the types of community units are a part of what is feeding the next renaissance in software and technology innovation.  Developers and technology enthusiasts of varying skill levels now have access to tools and even open-licensed software to further their learning and their ability to work more effectively at solving problems in their own IT related work functions.

> It is fitting that the IT teams delivering the infrastructure and support to move ahead cooperative efforts (such as "NIC's" for education professionals) also are following similar patterns in knowledge sharing and collaboration. 


The Akimeka/DNC office in Maui is designated the R&D division of our multi-geographical project team; our internal project Wiki has been our central gathering point of knowledge.  Ideas tried and succeeded/failed or new technologies discovered are evaluated and documented there.  When time permits, our database team meets for an informal seminar at lunch to share details about current project tasks in progress or just technologies that are of current interest to each of us.

If my introduction resounds as strongly as my reaction from finding this opening, please don't hesitate to connect.  My email and mobile phone number are below.  




Rich G Pascual
pascualrg1@gmail.com
mobile: (925) 223-7166



[1]:http://www.carnegiefoundation.org/about-us/jobs/database-developer-for-education-research
[2]:http://www.carnegiefoundation.org/sites/default/files/bryk-gomez_building-nics-education.pdf


